>> SEAN STONE: Imagine the
space around us is not empty,
but charged with electricity.
Let's enter the "Buzzsaw."
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to "Buzzsaw," where
we cut through the mainstream
narratives to explore the
twilight zones of reality.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
With me today is
David Talbott, who
is an author and mythologist,
as well as the founding
member of the
Thunderbolts Project,
a collaborative gathering
of scholars and scientists
seeking to better understand
the role of electrical events
in space, in biological
systems, and in the human past.
His amazing insights into
the electric universe
and how it plugs
into ancient myths
are some of the topics
we'll be discussing.
So Dave, I want to
start by asking you
about Immanuel Velikovsky,
who is known for his book,
"Worlds in Collision," which
was a bestseller in 1950.
And how did his work inspire
some of the electrical universe
conceptions?
>> DAVID TALBOTT: Well, I'd
start with the effect that
Velikovsky's work hard on
me because it was profound.
It was life altering.
And I've never looked
back since then.
I started an investigation
of ancient myths,
specifically because
I wanted to know
if Immanuel Velikovsky
could possibly
be right in his
extraordinary claim
that the planet Venus
was once a comet.
Now, once you begin following
that, it doesn't stop.
And that's why I've
never let the subject go.
But the subject broadened into
a more multi-disciplinary study
because other people come
in from other fields.
We're getting interested
in the same topic.
Additionally, Velikovsky had
an extraordinary statement
in an unpublished manuscript.
It was originally
an opening section
of "Worlds in Collision,"
his bestselling book.
But he pulled it
out because he felt
it needed more examination and
more development as a story.
So that left me then
with an opportunity
to look at Velikovksy's
opening segment of "Worlds
in Collision," which is
actually quite interesting,
Immanuel Velikovsky concluded
from his own investigation
of human origins and
the origins of myth.
He concluded that the
planet Saturn was once
a spectacular body in our sky.
And that was possible because we
were in a dynamic relationship
to Saturn.
Earth and Saturn
were in a close--
they were in close
proximity, let's say,
and moving through an
electrified environment.
Today, we refer to that
environment as the plasma
medium of the solar system.
And so uncharged particles
fill the empty space.
So it's because
the solar system.
And Velikovsky recognized
that electricity
across the solar system
had a powerful effect
on ancient events.
Electric currents,
electric discharge
produced events between
planets in ancient times
that were the provocation
for the great myths
of the ancient world.
Now, how could we possibly
believe that today?
Well, if we insist that
the ancient sky looked
much like our sky today,
it's entirely implausible.
The millions and
billions of miles
that separate planets
today would not
allow for that kind of
dynamic electric activity
in ancient times.
But what about the possibility
that a congregation
of planets in an earlier
phase of the solar system
was very close.
They were interacting
with each other.
Now, is that worth asking?
Now, the only way you can know
whether the question is worth
asking is to ask it and see.
Now, that's what I did in 1972.
I asked the question.
And I am still working with
the answers to that question.
But it broadened out
because you can't
talk about Mars and
the ancient world
without running right
into the comet Venus.
So a dance of Mars
and Venus is implied
in all of the
ancient cultures that
talk about those two bodies.
>> SEAN: That's why,
in the Greek mythology,
Mars was married to Venus.
>> TALBOTT: It's the--
and not just in Greek mythology.
That is a virtually
global theme.
Now, that's preposterous.
You cannot ever explain that
global theme by something that
we observe today.
So in a sense, we are required
by the things we now know
to ask a different question.
What was the ancient sky
presenting to human observers
on Earth that made Mars
masculine and Venus feminine?
>> SEAN: So what was that
relationship like between Mars
and Venus?
>> TALBOTT: Well, the
solar system was completely
different.
We have to start with that,
just as a possibility,
and then begin exploring.
Why did the early cultures
the world over envision
a marriage of a feminine
Venus and a masculine Mars?
Well, that is an
almost endless story.
And it carried through
all of ancient history
into medieval times.
You're still seeing the
marriage of Mars and Venus.
And it gets more
complex than that.
But that underpinning of Mars
is masculine, Venus is feminine,
has no explanation
under common assumptions
today, just no explanation.
But what about the possibility
that we've completely
misunderstood the history
of the solar system?
Now, once you pose
that question,
you will never stop
running into evidence
that the solar system was
once utterly different
than what it is now.
We were part of a close
congregation of planets
towering over humanity.
Just towering over
humans on Earth
who experienced this
explosion of imagination
because these were terrifying
and awe-inspiring events.
And they were the provocation
of all of world mythology.
Now, if when I make a
statement of that sort,
it immediately creates a demand
that I substantiate that.
So it's not something to
be substantiated overnight.
But it is something that
has been substantiated
within the electric
universe movement,
and specifically our
Thunderbolts Project.
That world mythology originated
in spectacular planetary dramas
in the sky, close
to the Earth, where
Mars and Venus were
primary players, but not
the only players.
So it's good to actually ask
other questions as well as to--
>> SEAN: Like why in mythology,
why does Jupiter become
the Zeus figure, the primary
god, overthrows Saturn?
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
And you just said,
and overthrow Saturn.
So that introduces two players.
Now, the fastest way
to get to the answer
of the Jupiter-Saturn
relationship, which
is quite different from the
Venus-Mars relationship,
but not really separate from it.
Because the planets
were all part
of a close
congregation of bodies.
Now, at some point
in an investigation
of the origins of ancient myth
in planetary behavior, things
that actually were seen in the
engagement of planets close
to the Earth, you come up
to the great conjunction
of primeval times.
Now, what in the name
of heaven was that?
The great conjunction
of primeval times.
Look it up and you'll
see that people
have acknowledged that
there is this tradition
of a great conjunction.
>> SEAN: The golden age.
>> TALBOTT: Now,
how is it defined?
The golden age involved
a great conjunction.
When planets do it in
perfect conjunction, not
a loose conjunction.
We refer to a great conjunction
today when Jupiter and--
just Jupiter and Mars
are within 20 degrees
of each other in the
sky because that's
the best that the
sky today gives us.
This is a different
planetary arrangement.
And it involves something
called collinear alignment.
That's planets in line
at equilibrium positions
that keep them in line as
they're moving around the sun.
And that produced
a configuration
in the sky, which I gave the
name the polar configuration.
Because it was axial.
It was along the north
polar axis of the Earth.
And this is why Saturn
standing visually
at the top of that
alignment of planets
was mysteriously identified
with the celestial pole.
I mean, even in
China they say Saturn
ruled the celestial pole.
>> SEAN: And the North
Pole being, I've heard,
Santa comes--
derives from there.
>> TALBOTT: Well, Santa Claus
comes out of all of this, yeah.
This is like echoing through
history thousands of years
later.
>> SEAN: Right.
The old father time, Santa.
>> TALBOTT: Father time.
>> SEAN: And Saturn
is the father of time,
so that would be the North Pole.
>> TALBOTT: It's the
beginning of time.
And time begins with
events that were
centered on the celestial pole.
So get out of your
mind everything
that has to do with things
you were taught in school.
This is such a
radical perspective.
But there's one advantage.
Everything that is being
suggested here is testable.
You can go look for it itself.
Saturn occupied
the celestial pole.
Go look it up.
Saturn was the ancient sun god.
I mean, Shamash.
Everybody knows Shamash is our
sun, the Babylonian sun god.
Well, except that
the texts themselves
say Shamash is
the planet Saturn.
And he's translated
as the sun god.
OK.
And the confusion
of sun and Saturn
is widespread in the ancient
world, particularly all
around the Mediterranean.
I mean, even Helios was the
name of Saturn originally.
So there's a mystery
to be resolved
if we could just agree on that.
>> SEAN: So your conception of
the ancient configuration was
basically the planets were
in alignment moving together
in essentially like a spiraling
wing around a central sun.
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
You could use that definition.
Now, the central sun, however--
>> SEAN: Is not in
our solar system.
>> TALBOTT: No, it was Saturn.
No, the central sun was Saturn.
>> SEAN: Oh, so they were
spiraling around Saturn.
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
These bodies were
moving around Saturn.
But the congregation was
maintaining an alignment.
So this is why the Babylonian
astronomer Berossus,
he looks back to
an earlier time.
And he says, well,
in the beginning,
the planets stood in line.
Such that a straight line would
run through the heart that the
gathered bodies.
Well, what gathered bodies?
What straight line?
>> SEAN: Would such--
would basically a disruption
of that configuration
have created the
galactic shifts that
have occurred on this planet?
We've seen, obviously, like
ice ages and tremendous--
we've seen destruction
of dinosaurs, right?
We've seen all these various
ages that have occurred.
Would that have-- could
have been possibly
because of the breaking
of official alignment?
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
And I do use the world galactic.
Minor matter.
But this would not be galactic.
It's within the solar
system around our sun.
And particular planets, gas
giants, and specifically
gas giants Jupiter
and Saturn, we're
very much involved in the
history of planet Earth
at a time when the planets
were always celebrated
as the gods, the great gods.
And the polar configuration
that I refer to in my work
is this alignment of planets.
In other words, it's
in line with the axis
of the Earth itself.
Therefore, these bodies
are seen along the axis.
And at the top of the
axis, visually, was Saturn.
And that is why you can find
globally Saturn identified
as the ancient sun god
and Saturn identified
with the celestial pole.
Now, just ask
yourself, right there.
I mean, we're just walking
out of the gate right now.
But you have two utterly
preposterous ideas
that are quite distinct.
Saturn was the ancient sun god.
Saturn occupied
the celestial pole.
>> SEAN: Only in the assumption
that the sky has always looked
the same.
>> TALBOTT: There you go.
>> SEAN: But going into
this question then of what
the electric universe is,
many people have been taught,
you said, throughout
our education.
Our education system teaches us
that space is sort of a vacuum,
right?
And that it's empty space
until you hit the next rock.
But the electric
universe indicates
that there's electricity and
plasma that fills the spaces--
>> TALBOTT:
Interplanetary space.
>> SEAN: --between
planets and the stars.
>> TALBOTT: And
intergalactic space.
And without plasma, we
wouldn't have the events
we see in remote space.
>> SEAN: And what is plasma?
Explain what that means.
>> TALBOTT: It's just molecules,
protons and electrons with
separation of the
charged particles.
In other words,
they're not just atoms.
And they're not just molecules.
They're just independently
moving charged particles.
>> SEAN: They have
an electric charge.
>> TALBOTT: They have a charge.
And they transmit charge across
any distance that you can name,
including intergalactic
distances.
So if you're looking
at high energy events
in space, what you're
looking at is the effect
of charged particle motion on
a galactic scale being focused
down on galaxies and within
the galaxies on stars
to light the stars.
Now, this is the heart of
the electric universe model.
Stars are not little
thermonuclear furnaces.
Now, I've been around the
electric universe community
enough now to see
that there's been
lots of discussion of this.
And in my estimation, the
electric sun hypothesis
wins on every test.
>> SEAN: So this is huge
blasphemy in the scientific
community because the sun is
considered a mixture of nuclear
fission and fusion explosions
that are taking place.
>> TALBOTT: At the
center of the sun.
And the heat is radiating out.
But we don't see the heat
radiating out from the sun.
We see something much different.
It gets colder as you move
outward from the core.
And same thing with the surface.
As you move out from the
surface, it gets cooler.
Now, if the sun is reacting
to an external electric field
and charged particles
coming in and concentrating
in an electric
discharge, then you
have an explanation of
the anomalies of the sun.
I mean, you know that the
defining attributes of the sun
are actually all anomalous?
I mean, do you know that--
I said it gets hotter
as you get farther away
from the surface of the sun.
And the rotation of the plasma
is faster with distance.
Now, can you imagine
something being stirred
from the center and
the outer rotation
is faster than the
close to the center?
These are the anomalies
of solar behavior.
And of course, there
are many others
that have attracted solar
physicists, and astronomers,
and scientists from essentially
every field to look at the sun
and look at star formation
and galactic formation
from a different vantage point.
Where the sea of
charged particles
that makes up the
cosmos as a whole
is driving the activity
that we observe.
So there is an electric
field of our sun
that is an inescapable
conclusion from the idea
that external charged
particles are actually acting
to create solar behavior.
But then that requires
you to test the idea
that there is a sun--
the sun is at the center
of an electric field.
Is that plausible?
Well, the first thing to look
at, because it's so, evident
is, what happens to a
body when it plunges--
into-- from outside
the solar system
when it plunges into this
electric field of the sun?
>> SEAN: Like a
comet or a meteor?
>> TALBOTT: It becomes a comet.
Now, that's what you
would expect of a rock.
It can be just a rock.
It doesn't have to be water.
But a rock a mile
or two in diameter.
It's not going to
immediately adjust
to the change in
the electric field
because it's too large for that.
So the stresses build up
and it starts discharging.
Now, this is an
oversimplified version
of the comet in the
electric universe.
>> SEAN: So your saying it
discharges energy as it goes?
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
It discharges material
from its surface.
It's an electric discharge
because of the charge
imbalance.
So this is all well within the
parameters of known science.
And now you see,
for the first time
actually in modern
history of science,
you see scholars and scientists
actually seriously beginning
to question the traditional
theory of comets
as dirty snowballs.
And that's going to
take us scientifically
into an entirely new field.
>> SEAN: And how does the
electric universe theory
challenge traditional Newtonian
physics of particular things
around gravitation
and things like this?
>> TALBOTT: The traditional
theory of celestial dynamics is
so dominated by gravity.
People don't even think.
The mainstream does
not even discuss
the idea of the electric force
and its possible contribution
to the events that we observe.
If galaxies are being formed
out of the interaction
of the charged particles
around that galaxy,
with the heart of that galaxy.
In other words, they're
feeding the galactic behavior.
They're going to
create structure.
Well, what would that
structure look like?
Now, for 50, 60, 70
years astronomers
who are receptive to the concept
of electricity and space,
they've been saying, these
galaxies are electrical.
This is what electric discharge
in the laboratory looks like.
We might want to just talk
for a couple of minutes
about our relationship
with Tony Peratt
because he saw
what we were doing,
and became a part of our group,
and showed us what he and
his laboratory at Los Alamos--
he was really the most
distinguished plasma scientist
in the world.
And we came in to a beautiful
convergence with him
because he liked
everything he saw.
He even like my
reconstruction of the stuff
seen in the ancient sky.
Because he saw it
in his laboratory.
>> SEAN: As far as he saw the
plasma formations that you were
describing?
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
I was drawing out at a
symposium in September 2000.
We had invited him to come in.
And I was drawing
out for the audience
these formations that we're
seeing in the ancient sky.
A lot of them are familiar,
whorl-like images,
including the swastika,
and the whorl,
and different images of the--
>> SEAN: The
ancient mythologies.
>> TALBOTT: The idea is the
whorling heart of heaven.
Now, that's a separate
topic to take up,
but it's vast in
its implications.
But he saw all that.
And then he comes up to me.
And he said, what
you have described
is exactly what I've seen in
my laboratory experiments.
And so we became
really close then.
He came up to Portland.
He began expeditions
to chronicle rock art
across the Western
US, and Europe,
and elsewhere, South America.
To show that people were carving
on stone these very formations.
>> SEAN: That are plasma
explosions in the sky?
>> TALBOTT: And he says
these formations are electric
discharge formations.
And I can vouch for that from
photographs in the laboratory
at Los Alamos.
So that became--
I mean, he began going
out into the field
and chronicling these
and publishing them
in peer-reviewed journals.
You don't ever hear
about any of this.
But within our group, this
was a spectacular breakthrough
for us.
>> SEAN: And just to clarify,
I understand plasma meaning
the fourth state of matter.
Basically, an electrically
charged gaseous state.
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
So it's not just neutral gases--
neutral molecules
And so on and atoms.
It involves dissociated atoms.
That means atoms dissociated
into their separate charged
particles.
And that makes it a
very conductive medium.
So you can run a
current through it
and create these
kinds of formations.
>> SEAN: These connections.
I'm curious because of
solar flare activity.
People have-- there are a lot
of theories about the nature
of solar flares.
That we know the sun's
activity intensifies
over certain periods of
time when the solar flare
activity increases or decreases,
right, these emissions.
And it can relate to everything
from psychological behavior
on Earth to potentially climate
and environmental changes.
What would that--
would that play--
how does that play into the
electric universe theory?
>> TALBOTT: Let's
put it this way.
Number one, this isn't my field.
But I am aware of people
who investigate this
and are drawing some
conclusions about solar behavior
and emotional responses
from human beings.
Now, let me just say that
seems so plausible to me
because we live in a
totally connected universe.
One of the great
contributions of our community
to the advances in
science is that we
have brought an emphasis
on plasma's contribution
to the idea of connectivity.
So starting on a galactic,
intergalactic scale,
all the way down to
our solar system,
down to the electric
Earth, and then
down to biological systems.
>> SEAN: Well, the blood cells.
We have plasma--
>> TALBOTT: Yeah.
That's--
>> SEAN: They call
plasma in our blood.
>> TALBOTT: Yeah
that's called plasma.
You don't want to confuse
it with space plasma.
>> SEAN: Metaphorically, it
could be connected in so far
as--
>> TALBOTT: There might
be a kind of metaphoric
relationship.
I mean, I know people are
examining bioelectricity.
We've had good relationships
a couple-- with a couple
of real pioneers in that field.
And bioelectricity is simply
emphasizing that really no man
is an island.
So the electricity that we
exhibit within our bodies
is actually not stopping
at the edge of our body.
Let's put it that way.
Human connectivity is an
essential foundational
principle of the electric
universe group as a whole.
>> SEAN: And it ties in
very well with the ancient
principles of qi.
Energy that flows within--
>> TALBOTT: I would presume so.
And I have no expertise
on that subject at all.
But I do think so, yeah.
>> SEAN: But also
this issue of, again,
the idea of the universe
that's completely connected
by the electrical
and plasma forces.
Plasma basically,
that's connecting
the spaces between us.
Many people who talk
about paranormal activity
have linked it to
plasma, and electricity,
electrical discharges, and
paranormal phenomenon that
appear in the electrical
forms, for example.
Do you have any thoughts on
the supernatural implications
of what an electric
universe could bring?
>> TALBOTT: Intuitively, I
believe we will discover more
and more at the
subtle energy level.
And it's at that
subtle energy level
that we're exploring
and confirming
the meaning of
human connectivity.
Now, out of this in some
way arises the deepest level
of connection you
would want to explore.
Well, what is the
deepest connection
between human beings, which
would be closest to reality
actually then the
surface, the phenomena?
And so in the end, my guess
is that bioelectricity
and the electric
universe as a whole
will come together in some
kind of grand synthesis.
I don't want to be extravagant
in the thoughts about this.
>> SEAN: Yeah.
I was going to ask.
I mean, let's go for it.
Do you think that the
electric universe theory
will help us get
to what Einstein
was looking for when he
said he wanted to find
the theory of everything?
>> TALBOTT: I'm not able to
given any authoritative answer
on that.
But again, it's intuitive.
But in this case,
the intuitive sense
I have of things
coming together,
we're moving toward a
more unified picture
of human existence and of
the cosmos, human existence
connected to the
cosmos, and connectivity
becoming increasingly
impactful on the sciences.
Because nothing is
more important to us
than the sense of we are one.
I mean, this is where human
consciousness is going.
Nothing is more powerful
in human consciousness
than this idea.
We're not just isolated atoms
running around on planet Earth.
There is connectivity.
So that's worth
exploring scientifically.
Now, I would say that the
tools for that exploration
are largely ahead of
us, not behind us.
>> SEAN: Well, how do we prove--
I mean, one thing
I have to wonder
is if we have these
craft going into space,
and we have astronauts
and cosmonauts,
why is it that we can't
prove electricity in space
definitively at this point?
>> TALBOTT: Well, I think we
in our group proved it several
times over.
But what will constitute proof
when you're in discussion
with people who are
working with an entirely
different framework.
Let's say, if the sun is
an electric discharge,
that means it's being acted
upon by its larger solar system
environment.
And that makes the--
that basically establishes
logically then the principle
of an electric universe.
Same thing with galaxies.
If galaxies are
exhibiting formations
that are seen in the
laboratory, but you could only
do that with a contribution of
plasma from outside the galaxy.
I mean, now we're into
vast regions of space.
But they still involve
the same contribution
of a larger environment to
a focused energetic event.
And so galaxies, stars
within the galaxies,
planets around the
stars, and so on,
all can be
legitimately identified
as evolving plasma
formations creating
physical phenomenon that we
only partially understand.
>> SEAN: Could the electric
universe help explain some
of the ET phenomenon
that have been described?
UFOs and things like this?
The ability to travel across
great distances through space?
>> TALBOTT: Is I think
so a good enough answer?
Because people are speculating
on this all the time.
I've done-- I've put my years
of time in on the ET question
and so on.
And I generally have not talked
about it within our group.
But when I get out
of the constraints
of the electric
universe community,
I don't mind saying
that it isn't even
a question in my mind.
Of course ETs exists.
>> SEAN: This is
just a hypothesis.
But do you think that the
government or certain people
within NASA or
higher levels already
know the universe is electric?
>> TALBOTT: It's interesting how
certain questions come up where
I never think that they've been
prompted by anything we said.
But I mean yes.
The government-- can I put it in
even in a conspiratorial sense?
And I'm not-- I never
talk conspiracy theories.
But I'm just saying this.
We don't own this place, folks.
We just don't own this place.
And well, what am
I saying there?
We don't even know
yet what works
be behind the visible instances
of power, expressions of power.
That is a question that is, in
my mind, completely legitimate.
But I do suspect we would
find things that surprise us.
>> SEAN: Well, it seems to me
that the electric universe is
an important theory for humans
to understand and grasp if we
want to empower ourselves to
basically not only recognize
the nature of the matrix,
but also potentially to--
>> TALBOTT: What's the matrix?
I'm just kidding you.
>> SEAN: The electrical matrix
that the prism does with--
that don't tell us that there's
an electric matrix around us,
right?
They don't tell us that.
>> TALBOTT: I don't know
anything about that.
>> SEAN: It's the
invisible electric fence.
>> TALBOTT: But I do know
that there are powers active
in the world today.
If we knew everything
that was going on,
we would be somewhere between
terrorized and just amazed.
And damned if I know
how to interpret it all.
It's not helpful to just divorce
yourself from events going on
in the world.
It is important that
we pay attention.
And I can't talk
about things I've
learned over the years except
that I could just say, yes.
I concur.
Everything is not in good order.
We are not entirely in
good hands, let's just say.
So I do--
I indulge various
theories that people
have brought into our
group and presented to us.
And I've looked at evidence.
And anyone who thinks everything
is A-OK on planet Earth
is really not in the real world.
>> SEAN: Not awake.
>> TALBOTT: Not awake.
Good phrase for it.
>> SEAN: And that's all
the time we have for this
week's "Buzzsaw."
You'll find everything
you need to further
your understanding
of David's research
and the electric universe
theory at thunderbolts.info.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
And remember, you
are the revolution.